Alrighty, it's time for another
challenge, so this is the digit sum
challenge. So the challenge is to write a
method with the name some digits the
method name that's got one inter
parameter with the name number. Now in
terms of validation, if the parameter
value is greater than or equal to ten
then the method should process the
number and processing here is done by
returning the sum of all digits in that
number if that's not the case if
parameter is less than ten, we want to
return negative one to indicate an
invalid value. Now the numbers from zero
through nine have one digit and that's
the reason why we're not going to
process them because we don't want to
sum a single digit so that's real reason
why we're returning negative one there
but also if the number is negative, we
also want to return negative one for
negative numbers and it's an example
there calling the method some digits
with a value of 125 passed should return
eight and that's because the three
digits that make up the value 125 can be
summed with one plus two plus five and
that's value of eight and calling the
method some digits one should return
negative one as per the requirements
listed above. So you want to add some
code to the main method to test out the
some digits method to determine that
it's working correctly for both valid
and invalid values passed as arguments.
And as a hint here use n remainder ten
to extract the least significant digit
and use N equals n divided by ten to
discard the least significant digit, so
hopefully that will help you in
determining how to go through and
extract out individual digits and the
method needs to be static like we've
used for other methods so far in this
course and I'm going to create the
project in IntelliJ called digit sum
challenge, you can download the challenge
text for this challenge in the resources
section on this video if you want to
have that available to you to read.
At this point in time now go ahead and try
this out, pause the video and once you're
finished come back and you can check out
my solution, so pause the video now.
Alright so how did you get on? Hopefully
you managed to figure it out
let's hop back into IntelliJ and go
through this step by step, you can see
here that I've already got my project
created and I've got the main method
also added to this class main as well.
Alright so the first thing we need to do
is to clear the method, so I'm going to
this is the method we need to create
these some digits method I'll put that
below the main method I'm gonna type in
private and once again private public or
not typing either is acceptable for this
solution and in time we'll go through
that private and public and will mean I
only use private static int because we
want to return a sum then we need to
return ability so method name is in some
digits in parentheses int being the type
of the parameter and the name being
number, so that's the definition for our
method then we're getting an error at the
moment because we haven't returned
anything and it's telling you some of
got a missing return statement but we'll
get to that but obviously the methods
returning type int because we have to
return the sum of all digits in the
number, so this probably would have
validate our parameter to make sure the
numbers within array in the correct range
and the simplest way to test this is to
put if number is less than 10, I put a
code block and return negative 1 there
the good thing about that solution is it
handles and make sure that the digits
I've got that the number is going to be
10 or higher but it also caters for
negative numbers because obviously a
negative number is going to be any
number less than 10 anyway so that
solves both our scenarios there.
Alright so what we're going to do now is
come up with a while loop but before we
do that we need to define a variable
that's kind of hold to some of the
digits I'm going to call that sum and
we'll define it with int sum equals 0.
Alright now before we start with the
while loop I just want to explain how
we're going to extract the least
significant digit, so let's say we've got
the number 125 that number as we've
established has got three digits one two
and five so the first step is to extract
the least significant digit in the
number 125 and that in this case is the
number five so to extract that digit we
have to use the remainder operator, what
I'm going to do is write a small comment
here on screen to help visualize
this sort of 125
it's basically going to be 125 divided
by 10 equals 12
12 times 10 equals 120 so therefore 125
take from 20 equals 5 so hopefully that
should help you visualize what we're
going to do so first we've got the
number 125 using the remainder with 10
we will get the number 5 and the reason
for that is that 125 divided by 10 is 12
this first part in here and then we know
that 12 times 10 is 120
so therefore 125 which we started with
more as 120 equals 5 so that's the way
to get the least significant digit but
it also knows when we divide the number
by 10 we would usually get 12.5 but
since this is an int number the decimal
place is discarded so we're actually
dropping the least significant digit.
So let's write our while loop so it's
going to be while and the while condition
is going to be number is greater than
zero, so you might be wondering at this
point why number greater than zero is
the condition well this is because we
have to divide the number by 10 to drop
the digit and once we've dropped all
digits the number will become zero, so in
other words we want to keep looping
while the number is greater than zero
for example we've got the number 125
like in the comment when we first
divided by 10 we get the number 12 then
again the next iteration of the loop we
divided by 10 we'll get the number 1 and
once more dividing by 10 so the last one
is going to be 1 divided by 10 we'll get
0 so when we get to 0 the loop will exit
since the condition is no longer true at
that point so that's why we're testing
and continuing the loop while the number
is greater than 0. So the first step in
the loop is to extract the least
significant digit as I mentioned let's
make a point about that first I'll make
a note about that so we want to extract
the least significant digit that's going
to be int digit equals number using the
remainder operator 10, right so the next
step in is to add the digit to the sum,
to do that we can put sum
plus equals digit this sums our variable
that we've defined on 115 outside of the while
loop. Now the last step in the
while loop is to increment so in other
words to do an iteration step, so the
goal is to drop the least significant
digit and to drop it as described
previously and in the hint we just
needed to divide the number by 10, so in
case in the case of the number 125 when
we divide it with 10, we get 12 since
we're using an int the decimal places
are dropped, so in other words we can say
the least significant digit at this
point is dropped so I'm going to add a
comment to that effect
drop the least significant digit and the
way we do that we put a number divided
by equals 10 in case you're wondering
that's an equivalent line to topping
number equals number divided by 10
you may not have seen that very often
that's the shortcut for that it was
quite a bit of text is a mess. Alright
so that's literally it for our while loop.
So the last step we want to do which is
outside of the while loop is to return
the sum so outside of the while loop,
we're going to type a return sum so
that's all there is for this method so
now we have to test it out so in other
words we've got to write some code in
the main method that will call the
method some digits to test out of our
logic in the method is working as per
the challenge text so in mine coming up
to here what I'm going to do is put this
out there we've got n double quotes sum
of digits number 125 is a little bit
make a little bit more readable the sum
of the digits and then 125 is plus some
digits and past 125 so if you run that
you should hopefully get the answer 8
here you can see we've got four there I
put that down to the bottom
sum of the digits in number 125 is 8, so
that's working correctly so let's copy
and paste that line a few times we'll
try a few different values still another
three we're just going to change the
numbers here firstly the second I'm
going to make that negative 125 the
third one we're going to make five and
the fourth one that's using the larger
number three two one two three
let's run all those. Okay as you can see
for number 125 we've got the value of 8
which is correct for the number 125
will be negative 1 which is correct
because it's an valid number we've
determined we're not going to deal with
negative numbers if you want to show it
down here is change these values as well
let's go ahead and do that it should
really be there to make it more readable
negative 125, make that 4 and for the
last one we're gonna go with 32,000 123,
just run that against how that the
labels match up with the text that was passed on.
Alright so negative 125 is negative 1
which is correct because we determined
here that any number less than 10 should
return negative 1
likewise for number 4 that should also
return negative 1, sum of the digits 4 3
2 1 2 3 is 11 we can calculate that by 3
plus 2 is 5 1 is 6 2 is 8 3 is 11, so it
seems that our solution is working
correctly. So as you can see the tricky
part here was to extract and drop the
least significant digit I hope you've
got a lot out of this challenge
and that you managed to complete it and
I'll see you now in the next video.